RP Cloud Overview and Security doc (#1504)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/security/cloud-security-architecture/cloud-security-network.mdx

---
title: Network Design, Ports, and Flows
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Redpanda Cloud Network Design, Ports, and Flows  | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn about Redpanda Cloud network design, including ports, and flows."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/security/cloud-security-architecture/cloud-security-network/" />
</head>

Redpanda Cloud deploys two different types of networks: one for private Redpanda
clusters and another for public Redpanda clusters. By default, networks are always

> laid out across multiple availability zones (AZ) to enable the creation of one or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
laid out across multiple availability zones (AZs) to enable the creation of one or
```

## Public Redpanda clusters

With public Redpanda clusters, TCP listeners are protected by SASL/SCRAM
(SCRAM-SHA-256, SCRAM-SHA-512) authentication and encrypted in transit using TLS 1.2.

The following diagram shows the public subnet used by public Redpanda clusters.

![Redpanda Cloud Security Architecture](../../../../../../static/img/cloud-public-networks.png)

## Private Redpanda clusters

Private Redpanda clusters are designed based on the following behaviors:

- There is proper network segmentation.
- All Redpanda services are only accessible from within the same VPC or through
  VPC peering.
- The data plane agent is placed in public subnets and segmented away by
  firewall rules from Redpanda services.

The following diagram shows the private subnet used by private Redpanda clusters.

![Redpanda Cloud Security Architecture](../../../../../../static/img/cloud-private-network.png)

## Network ports

Network ports are available for North-South, East-West, and South-North as follows.

#### North-South

The following table lists the network ports available to external clients within
each data plane. For private-only Redpanda clusters, access to these ports is

> only possible through Redpanda Cloud network connections such as [VPC Peering](../../../vpc-peering),

Author: Going to stick with the convention of the case matching the heading in the navtree

transit gateway attachments, or private links.

| Service                                | Port                      |
| :--------------------------------------| :------------------------ |
| Kafka API                              | 30092/tcp                 |

> | Kafka Bootstrap                        | 9092/tcp                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Kafka bootstrap                        | 9092/tcp                  |
```

| Schema Registry                        | 30081/tcp                 |
| HTTP Proxy                             | 30082/tcp                 |
| Redpanda Console, Prometheus metrics   | 443/tcp                   |

#### East-West

The following table lists the network ports available within each data plane for
internal communication only.

| Service                                | Port                      |
| :--------------------------------------| :------------------------ |
| Kafka API                              | 30092/tcp                 |

> | Kafka Bootstrap                        | 9092/tcp                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Kafka bootstrap                        | 9092/tcp                  |
```
not positive, but I think bootstrap should be lowercase

| Schema Registry                        | 30081/tcp                 |
| HTTP Proxy                             | 30082/tcp                 |
| Redpanda Console                       | 33145/tcp                 |
| Redpanda Admin API                     | 30644/tcp                 |
| Kafka Connect API                      | 8083/tcp                  |

#### South-North

The following network port is used for outgoing network connections.

| Service                                         | Port                      |
| :-----------------------------------------------| :------------------------ |

> | Control Plane, Breakglass, Artifact Repository  | 30092/tcp                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Control plane, breakglass, artifact repository  | 30092/tcp                 |
```

> ## AWS Network services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## AWS network services
```

Redpanda Cloud supports the following Amazon Web Services (AWS) network services.

> - Time synchronization
>   To ensure time synchronization, Redpanda Cloud in AWS uses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Time synchronization

  To ensure time synchronization, Redpanda Cloud in AWS uses
```

  the [Amazon Time Sync Service](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2017/11/introducing-the-amazon-time-sync-service/),
  a fleet of redundant satellite-connected and atomic reference clocks in AWS
  regions.

- Domain Name System (DNS)

>   Redpanda Cloud creates a new DNS zone for each Redpanda cluster in the control plane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Redpanda Cloud creates a new DNS zone for each cluster in the control plane
```

  and delegates its management exclusively to each cluster’s data plane. In turn,
  the data plane creates a hosted zone in Route 53, managing DNS records for
  Redpanda services as needed. All interactions with Route 53 are controlled
  by IAM policies targeted to the specific Route 53 resources managed by each data
  plane, following the least privilege principle.

- Distributed denial of service (DDoS) protection

  All Redpanda Cloud services publicly exposed in the control plane and data plane
  are protected against the most common layer 3 and 4 DDoS attacks by
  [AWS Shield Standard](https://aws.amazon.com/shield/features/#AWS_Shield_Standard),
  with no latency impact.

> - VPC Peering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- VPC peering
```

  Redpanda Cloud supports configuring [VPC peering](../../../vpc-peering) against
  Redpanda Cloud networks, making them available to one or many private Redpanda
  clusters and allowing users to connect to those clusters without traversing the
  public internet.

  You can establish VPC peering connections between two VPCs with non-overlapping

>   network addresses. When creating a Redpanda Cloud network intended for peering,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  network addresses. When creating a network intended for peering,
```

  ensure that the specified network address range does not overlap with the network
  address range of the destination VPC.

  It is strongly recommended to reject all network traffic initiated from a Redpanda
  Cloud network and only accept traffic from Kafka connectors that connect to
  your internal data stores to retrieve or push data.

> ## GCP Network services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## GCP network services
```

Redpanda Cloud supports the following Google Cloud Platform (GCP) network services.

- Time synchronization

  To ensure time synchronization, Redpanda Cloud in GCP uses [Google NTP Servers](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/configure-ntp#linux-chrony),
  a fleet of satellite-connected and atomic reference clocks.

- Domain Name System (DNS)

>   Redpanda Cloud creates a new DNS zone for each Redpanda cluster in the control plane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Redpanda Cloud creates a new DNS zone for each cluster in the control plane
```

  and delegates its management exclusively to each cluster’s data plane. In turn,
  the data plane creates a managed zone in Cloud DNS, managing DNS records for
  Redpanda services, as needed. All the interactions with Cloud DNS are
  controlled by IAM policies targeted to the specific Cloud DNS resources managed
  by each data plane, following the least privilege principle.

- VPC peering

  Redpanda Cloud supports configuring [VPC peering](../../../vpc-peering) against Redpanda Cloud networks,
  making them available to one or many private Redpanda clusters and allowing
  users to connect to those clusters without traversing the public internet.

  You can establish VPC peering connections between two VPCs with non-overlapping

>   network addresses. When creating a Redpanda Cloud network intended for peering,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  network addresses. When creating a network intended for peering,
```

---

> title: Cloud Network Design, Ports, and Flows

Reviewer: @Feediver1 looks like this page still needs to be added to the sidebar nav

Author: Hmmm...it's there under Secrets
![image](https://github.com/redpanda-data/documentation/assets/102751339/f8f71917-a43d-4182-98a3-4913b71e71b0)

---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Redpanda Cloud Network Design, Ports, and Flows  | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn about Redpanda Cloud network design, including ports, and flows."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/security/cloud-security-architecture/cloud-security-network/" />
</head>

> Redpanda Cloud deploys two different types of networks: one for private and another

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redpanda Cloud deploys two different types of networks: one for private Redpanda clusters and another
```

for public Redpanda clusters. By default, networks are always laid out across
multiple availability zones (AZ) to enable the creation of one or many single
and multi-AZ Redpanda clusters within them.

## Public Redpanda clusters

> Public Redpanda clusters are designed based on the following behaviors:
> 
> - Redpanda TCP listeners are protected by SASL/SCRAM (SCRAM-SHA-256, SCRAM-SHA-512)
>   authentication and encrypted in transit using TLS 1.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With public Redpanda clusters, TCP listeners are protected by SASL/SCRAM (SCRAM-SHA-256, SCRAM-SHA-512)
  authentication and encrypted in transit using TLS 1.2.
```
rewriting this because I think it looks odd to have a bulleted list with only one item

The following diagram shows the public subnet used by public Redpanda clusters.

> ![Redpanda Cloud Security Architecture](../../../../../../static/img/cloud-public-networks.png)

Reviewer: fyi: I need to enlarge to 200% to read the text in these images

## Private Redpanda clusters

Private Redpanda clusters are designed based on the following behaviors:

- There is proper network segmentation.
- All Redpanda services are only accessible from within the same VPC or through

>   VPC peerings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  VPC peering.
```

- The data plane agent is placed in public subnets and segmented away by
  firewall rules from Redpanda services.

The following diagram shows the private subnet used by private Redpanda clusters.

> ![Redpanda Cloud Security Architecture](../../../../../../static/img/cloud-private-network.png)

Reviewer: @Feediver1: My preview looks like this image is duplicated on top of itself (i.e., I can see bits of the image duplicated outside of it). Please check your view!

Author: Yes--it's corrupted--need to replace with new image from Ben W...

Author: I replaced the image and this corruption is now gone.

## Network ports

Network ports are available for North-South, East-West, and South-North as follows.

#### North-South

The following table lists the network ports available to external clients within
each data plane. For private-only Redpanda clusters, access to these ports is

> only possible through Redpanda Cloud network connections such as [VPC Peering](../../../vpc-peering),
> Transit Gateway Attachments, or Private Links.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only possible through Redpanda Cloud network connections such as [VPC peering](../../../vpc-peering),
transit gateway attachments, or private links.
```

| Redpanda Console, Prometheus metrics   | 443/tcp                   |

#### East-West

The following table lists the network ports available within each data plane for
internal communication only.

| Service                                | Port                      |
| :--------------------------------------| :------------------------ |
| Kafka API                              | 30092/tcp                 |
| Kafka Bootstrap                        | 9092/tcp                  |
| Schema Registry                        | 30081/tcp                 |
| HTTP Proxy                             | 30082/tcp                 |
| Redpanda Console                       | 33145/tcp                 |
| Redpanda Admin API                     | 30644/tcp                 |
| Kafka Connect API                      | 8083/tcp                  |

#### South-North

The following network port is used for outgoing network connections.

| Service                                         | Port                      |
| :-----------------------------------------------| :------------------------ |
| Control Plane, Breakglass, Artifact Repository  | 30092/tcp                 |

## AWS Network services

> Redpanda Cloud supports the following AWS network services.
> 
> - Time synchronization
> 
>   To ensure time synchronization, Redpanda Cloud in Amazon Web Services (AWS) uses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redpanda Cloud supports the following Amazon Web Services (AWS) network services.

- Time synchronization

  To ensure time synchronization, Redpanda Cloud in AWS uses
```

  the [Amazon Time Sync Service](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2017/11/introducing-the-amazon-time-sync-service/),
  a fleet of redundant satellite-connected and atomic reference clocks in AWS
  regions.

- Domain Name System (DNS)

>   Redpanda Cloud creates a new DNS zone per Redpanda cluster in the control plane
>   and delegates its management exclusively to each cluster’s data plane. In turn,
>   the data plane creates a hosted zone in Route53, managing DNS records for
>   Redpanda services, as needed. All the interactions with Route53 are controlled
>   by IAM policies targeted to the specific Route53 resources managed by each data
>   plane, following the least privilege principle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Redpanda Cloud creates a new DNS zone for each Redpanda cluster in the control plane
  and delegates its management exclusively to each cluster’s data plane. In turn,
  the data plane creates a hosted zone in Route 53, managing DNS records for
  Redpanda services as needed. All interactions with Route 53 are controlled
  by IAM policies targeted to the specific Route 53 resources managed by each data
  plane, following the least privilege principle.
```

- Distributed denial of service (DDoS) protection

>   All Redpanda Cloud services publicly exposed in the control and data planes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  All Redpanda Cloud services publicly exposed in the control plane and data plane
```

  are protected against the most common layer 3 and 4 DDoS attacks by
  [AWS Shield Standard](https://aws.amazon.com/shield/features/#AWS_Shield_Standard),
  with no latency impact.

> - [VPC Peering](../../../vpc-peering)
> 
>   Redpanda Cloud supports configuring VPC peering against Redpanda Cloud networks,
>   making them available to one or many private Redpanda clusters, and also allows
>   users to connect to those clusters without traversing the public internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- VPC peering

  Redpanda Cloud supports configuring [VPC peering](../../../vpc-peering) against Redpanda Cloud networks,
  making them available to one or many private Redpanda clusters and allowing
  users to connect to those clusters without traversing the public internet.
```

>   You can establish VPC Peering connections between two VPCs with non-overlapping
>   network addresses. When creating a Redpanda Cloud network intended for peering,
>   ensure that the specified network address range does not overlap with the network
>   address range of the destination VPC.
> 
>   It is strongly recommended to reject all network traffic initiated from a Redpanda
>   cloud network and only accept traffic from Kafka Connectors that connect to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can establish VPC peering connections between two VPCs with non-overlapping
  network addresses. When creating a Redpanda Cloud network intended for peering,
  ensure that the specified network address range does not overlap with the network
  address range of the destination VPC.

  It is strongly recommended to reject all network traffic initiated from a Redpanda
  Cloud network and only accept traffic from Kafka connectors that connect to
```

  your internal data stores to retrieve or push data.

## GCP Network services

Redpanda Cloud supports the following Google Cloud Platform (GCP) network services.

- Time synchronization

  To ensure time synchronization, Redpanda Cloud in GCP uses [Google NTP Servers](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/configure-ntp#linux-chrony),
  a fleet of satellite-connected and atomic reference clocks.

- Domain Name System (DNS)

>   Redpanda Cloud creates a new DNS zone per Redpanda cluster in the control plane
>   and delegates its management exclusively to each cluster’s data plane. In turn,
>   the data plane creates a managed zone in Cloud DNS, managing DNS records for
>   Redpanda services, as needed. All the interactions with Cloud DNS are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Redpanda Cloud creates a new DNS zone for each Redpanda cluster in the control plane
  and delegates its management exclusively to each cluster’s data plane. In turn,
  the data plane creates a managed zone in Cloud DNS, managing DNS records for
  Redpanda services as needed. All the interactions with Cloud DNS are
```

---
title: Cloud Network Design, Ports, and Flows
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Redpanda Cloud Network Design, Ports, and Flows  | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn about Redpanda Cloud network design, including ports, and flows."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/security/cloud-security-architecture/cloud-security-network/" />
</head>

Redpanda Cloud deploys two different types of networks: one for private and another
for public Redpanda clusters. By default, networks are always laid out across
multiple availability zones (AZ) to enable the creation of one or many single
and multi-AZ Redpanda clusters within them.

## Public Redpanda clusters

Public Redpanda clusters are designed based on the following behaviors:

> - There is no network segmentation.

Reviewer 2: This works a bit different, we should not make this public for security reasons.

> - Redpanda brokers are collocated in the same subnets as the data plane agent.

Reviewer 2: Let's leave this one out too.
